1. How does i2c communication work?
I2c uses 2 wires SDA(Serial data) and SCL(Serial Clock). There can be multiple master and multiple slaves. Only master to slave communication is possible. Thisis a half duplex sort of communication. The data bit's are read at every clock high. The data bit transtitions only at clock low or when to signal start and stop condition it will transition at clock high. There are 7 address bits, so 0 to 127 slave addresses can be addressed, and also there is contention mechanisms for muliple masters.

2. What are the basic elements of I2c transactions?
Master asserts start condition, after which sends 7 address bits with 1 r/w bit. Then waits for ack, in which the slave could stretch the clock. The slave thensend an ack. After all the data, the sender asserts a stop condition. In between the transactions frames, the clock is asserted low, to tell others the bus is busy.

3.How many slaves in i2c can be addressed?
There are 2 modes, 7-bit addressing and 10-bit addressing so either 7bit address space can be addressed or 10 bit address space in the 10 bit mode.

4.Is I2C synchronous or asynchronous?
I2C is synchronous as it depends on the sender's clock line. each bits value depends on the clock being high at ther particuar instant.

5. What are start and stop conditions?
I2C start conditions is that the sender first pulls the sda low, and then scl is pulled low, and starts to clock. The stop condition is to pull up scl and thenpull up sda as well.

6.What is arbitration in i2c? How is it useful?
I2c bus arbitration is needed most when there is more than 1 master. 2 Master if sending together at same time, the first one to send 0 bit will be winner of the contention and the arbitration rules say that loser will need to back down from contention.

7.Give some exmaples where i2c is a goof choice as a communication port?
I2c is faster than uart, has lower pin count than spi. I2C has got wide range of sensors in the market. Any communciaiion whihc involvoes on board peripherals with medium speed interface, should choose i2c.

8.What happens when 2 masters contend?
When 2 masters contend, the master that sends a 0 bit will be considered the owner of the bus for the time, and the loser will have to delist from contending.

9.What happens inside the master if the slave never releases scl?
At first master will think, clock stretchng is happening and it will give some time to slave. But user may define a time-bound, if more than than, we may assume the slave is misbehaving and has compromised the bus.

10.How does and I2C fifo work for rx and tx.
In newer i2c engines, the buffer size will be around 4 bytes, for each bit incoming or outgoing, it s shifted into the fifo. Then information bits are set such as TXDone or RXDone.

11.What interrupt events are genertated during a single i2c transactions.
There are 2 types of interrupts generated by the peripheral, event or error interrupt. Usually event interrupts would give interrupts for start, stop,send and receive condtions, error interrupts will be when contention is failed, overrun happens, or start/stop condition fail.

12.What happens internally if RX FIFO OR TX FIFO overflowes?
The overrun bit will be toggled in the i2c sfr. Using which we have to assume we lost bytes.

